README.md, before:

# rekon
`rekon` is an attack surface managent tool that helps to collect basic pubically visible asset information though DNS enumeration and a variety of passive probes. This tool is meant to be able to build an asset inventory from a top-level domain (e.g. acme.com) using free and open source solutions. For an example of the output please see the [example_output](./example_output/) folder in this repository.
 
`rekon` uses a combination of active and passive techinques to gather information. You should only run this tool against sites for which you have permission to run an active scan.

`rekon` is tested against Pyton 3.11.5 on OS X, but is should run anywhere.

# Installation

1. Clone or download this repo:
    
    `git clone https://github.com/yourusername/rekon.git`

1. Navigate to the root of the repo:

    `cd rekon`

1. Install Dependencies

    `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

# Configuration

Rekon uses a configuration file (rekon-config.json) to specify the scanning parameters and options. You can customize this configuration to meet your needs. Here's how you can configure it:

1. Open `rekon-config.json`
1. Modify the  configuraiton parameters. Explanations are provided in the the sample config file:

```
{
    "root_urls": [      -- Add in a list of domains you want to build a DNS enumeration for.
        "example.com",
        "sample.com"
    ],
    "max_dns_records": 10,  -- This is the max number or records to fetch and scan for each root url. Some sites can have hundreds of records, so start small
    "run_firewall_scan": true, -- Runs the wafw00f tool to figure out what firewall is running
    "run_ip_scan": true, -- Provide a list of associated IP addresses
    "http_status_scan": true, -- Return the HTTP status of the domain
    "sec_headers_scan": true, -- Look for specific missing security headers
    "take_screenshot": true, -- use selenium to snag a screeshot of a valid domain
}
```

# Running rekon

_Running the script over VPN is recommended_.

1. Open a terminal to the root of the /rekon repository.

    `cd path/to/rekon`

1. Run rekon

    `python3 rekon.py`

# Viewing the results

Once Rekon has completed scanning, it will generate a CSV file containing the scan results. The CSV file will be named scan_results_<date>.csv, where <date> is the current date in the "YYYYMMDD" format.

You can open the CSV file with a spreadsheet application or text editor to view the scan results.

# Other reconnisance references

Here are some other references that may be helpful to see how other approach this kind of attack surface reconnisance. 

## How to blogs

* [How to: Recon and Content Discovery](https://www.hackerone.com/ethical-hacker/how-recon-and-content-discovery) - HackerOne


## Useful free browser-based reconnaissance tools

* [crt.sh](https://crt.sh/) -  Certification search, providing DNS enumeration.
* [DNS dumpster](https://dnsdumpster.com/) - Domain research tool with very robust data sets.
* [Shodan.io](https://www.shodan.io/) - Global search engine for internet connected devices.

## Commercial ASM Tools

* [Security Trails](https://securitytrails.com/) - Building DNS and IP realted inventories and monitoring.
* [HackerOne Attack Surface Reviuew](https://www.hackerone.com/attack-surface-review)
* [Security Scorecard](https://securityscorecard.com/solutions/enterprise-risk-management/)

# Open source tools

* [subfinder](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/subfinder) - subdomain discovery tool.
* [sunlist3r](https://github.com/aboul3la/Sublist3r) - DNS enumeration tool
* [wafw00f](https://github.com/EnableSecurity/wafw00f) - Firewall fingerprinting tool.
* [assetfinder](https://github.com/tomnomnom/assetfinder)
* [OWASP Amass](https://github.com/owasp-amass/amass) - Attack surface network mapping.
* [Attack Surface Mapper](https://github.com/superhedgy/AttackSurfaceMapper) - Requires API keys for multiple integrations

[Here's a good blog article](https://blog.yeswehack.com/yeswerhackers/subdomains-tools-review-full-detailed-comparison/) by [Siz2dez](https://twitter.com/Six2dez1) that provides a more comprehensive list of subdomain tools.

Commit message:

Develop (#6)
* breaking up scans into separate modules
* add in option to take a screen shot of a valid domain.
* update readme for take_screenshot flag
* add in html format output option with screen grab image in an html table.
* update screen shot module to return the relative path of the image name
* refactor out reporting modules. update readme.md to make it more readable.

README.md, after:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.11.5-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3115/)
[![Contributions Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributions-Welcome-brightgreen.svg)](CONTRIBUTING.md)
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/austimkelly/rekon.svg)](https://github.com/austimkelly/rekon/commits/main)

# rekon
`rekon` is a passive domain scanning tool that helps to collect public internet resrouce information though DNS enumeration and a variety of passive scanning probes. This tool is meant to be able to build an asset inventory from a top-level domain (e.g. acme.com) using free and open source solutions. This kind of inventory is also known as an attack surface management tool. For an example of the output please see the [example_output](./example_output/) folder in this repository.

`rekon` is not a vulnerabity scanning tool nor does it rely on any active scanning techniques. Active scanning typicaly involves acessing web content simulating user interaction for more comprehensive vulnerabity analysis. `rekon` does not require any API keys or accounts and is built to be fast.

`rekon` is tested against Pyton 3.11.5 on OS X, but is should run anywhere.

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Running rekon](#running-rekon)
- [Viewing the results](#viewing-the-results)
- [Other reconnaissance references](#other-reconnaissance-references)

# Installation

1. Clone or download this repo:
    
    `git clone https://github.com/austimkelly/rekon.git`

1. Navigate to the root of the repo:

    `cd rekon`

1. Install Dependencies

    `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

# Configuration

Rekon uses a configuration file (rekon-config.json) to specify the scanning parameters and options. You can customize this configuration to meet your needs. Here's how you can configure it:

1. Open `rekon-config.json`
1. Modify the  configuraiton parameters. Explanations are provided in the the sample config file:

```
{
    "root_urls": [      -- Add in a list of domains you want to build a DNS enumeration for.
        "example.com",
        "sample.com"
    ],
    "max_dns_records": 10,  -- This is the max number or records to fetch and scan for each root url. Some sites can have hundreds of records, so start small
    "run_firewall_scan": true, -- Runs the wafw00f tool to figure out what firewall is running
    "run_ip_scan": true, -- Provide a list of associated IP addresses
    "http_status_scan": true, -- Return the HTTP status of the domain
    "sec_headers_scan": true, -- Look for specific missing security headers
    "take_screenshot": true, -- use selenium to snag a screeshot of a valid domain
}
```

# Running rekon

_Running the script over VPN is recommended_.

1. Open a terminal to the root of the /rekon repository.

    `cd path/to/rekon`

1. Run rekon

    `python3 rekon.py`

# Viewing the results

Once Rekon has completed scanning, it will generate a CSV file containing the scan results. The CSV file will be named scan_results_<date>.csv, where <date> is the current date in the "YYYYMMDD" format.

You can open the CSV file with a spreadsheet application or text editor to view the scan results.

For quicker human readable viewing, an HTML table outputs the same results. The HTML contains an embed of the site image for quick viewing.

# Other reconnaissance references

Here are some other references that may be helpful to see how other approach this kind of attack surface reconnisance. 

## How to blogs

* [How to: Recon and Content Discovery](https://www.hackerone.com/ethical-hacker/how-recon-and-content-discovery) - HackerOne


## Useful free browser-based reconnaissance tools

* [crt.sh](https://crt.sh/) -  Certification search, providing DNS enumeration.
* [DNS dumpster](https://dnsdumpster.com/) - Domain research tool with very robust data sets.
* [Shodan.io](https://www.shodan.io/) - Global search engine for internet connected devices.

## Commercial ASM Tools

* [Security Trails](https://securitytrails.com/) - Building DNS and IP realted inventories and monitoring.
* [HackerOne Attack Surface Reviuew](https://www.hackerone.com/attack-surface-review)
* [Security Scorecard](https://securityscorecard.com/solutions/enterprise-risk-management/)

# Open source tools

* [subfinder](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/subfinder) - subdomain discovery tool.
* [sunlist3r](https://github.com/aboul3la/Sublist3r) - DNS enumeration tool
* [wafw00f](https://github.com/EnableSecurity/wafw00f) - Firewall fingerprinting tool.
* [assetfinder](https://github.com/tomnomnom/assetfinder)
* [OWASP Amass](https://github.com/owasp-amass/amass) - Attack surface network mapping.
* [Attack Surface Mapper](https://github.com/superhedgy/AttackSurfaceMapper) - Requires API keys for multiple integrations

[Here's a good blog article](https://blog.yeswehack.com/yeswerhackers/subdomains-tools-review-full-detailed-comparison/) by [Siz2dez](https://twitter.com/Six2dez1) that provides a more comprehensive list of subdomain enumeration tools.
